Puppet Configuration for LSB Infrastructure
===========================================

This repository contains (most of) the configuration for the LSB's
infrastructure.  We are moving to a devops model, where all server
configuration is done here instead of logging into a server and
munging configuration files.

We use Puppet (http://puppetlabs.com) as the configuration tool.  The
initial work done here was done with Puppet 2.6, and should remain
compatible with that version for the foreseeable future.

Configuration is defined per-service in Puppet modules, and per-node
in the "nodes" directory.  Whenever possible, it's best to define
services as modules, rather than include all the gory details in the
per-node config.  This makes it easy to move services between nodes; a
quick "include 'foo'" creates the service on the node and gets it
working.

The configuration will, in general, reflect a SUSE bias, as the
initial node was a SLES 11 virtual machine.  However, we are trying to
isolate SUSE-specific things as much as possible, so we should be able
to accomodate nodes running other Linux distributions as well.  This
will obviously not be foolproof, so sticking with SUSE may be the best
bet for making things work well.  Although we're using SLES, OpenSUSE
should also work.

Please test configuration changes on a test node before pushing them
into production!

Please file bugs related to our configuration at the LSB bug tracker
(http://bugs.linuxbase.org), in the Infrastructure section.  There is
a DevOps component; this should be used only for bugs or request
specifically aimed at Puppet itself.  Bugs in other components that
happen to be configured in Puppet should be filed in that component,
not in DevOps.  Patches or bzr merge directives against this
repository are welcome to bugs in any Infrastructure component.

Jeff Licquia
licquia@linuxfoundation.org
2012-01-18
